content/features/privacy/confidential-assets.mdx, before:

---
title: Confidential Assets
---

## Introduction

Confidential Assets are unique feature allowing anyone to create its own asset / token and be fully compatible with wallets, exchanges and other services.

This is possible because it is directly implemented in base layer of the blockchain, and not as a second layer solution.

Each asset is represented by a unique asset ID (32 bytes hash). This asset ID is used to identify the asset in transactions and in the blockchain.

It allows to have fully private balances and transferred amounts just like XELIS.

As an example, XELIS is a confidential asset itself with the asset ID `0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000`.

## Advantages

- **Privacy**: Confidential Assets allow to have fully private balances and transferred amounts.
- **Compatibility**: Confidential Assets are fully compatible with wallets, exchanges and other services.
- **Security**: Confidential Assets are implemented in base layer of the blockchain, and not as a second layer solution.
- **Decentralized**: Confidential Assets are fully decentralized and trustless, nobody can freeze or censor your assets.
- **Management**: if deployed by a Smart Contract, it can be minted (example: a stablecoin based on a mint/burn mechanism).

## Limitations

Unfortunately (or fortunately ?), confidential assets outside of a Smart Contract cannot be managed by the owner.
This means that the owner cannot freeze or burn the assets you own, but also cannot take, for example, a % fee on each transfer.

Commit message:

assets: add supply info, metadata

content/features/privacy/confidential-assets.mdx, after:

---
title: Confidential Assets
---

## Introduction

Confidential Assets are unique feature allowing anyone to create its own asset / token and be fully compatible with wallets, exchanges and other services.

This is possible because it is directly implemented in base layer of the blockchain, and not as a second layer solution.

Each asset is represented by a unique asset ID (32 bytes hash). This asset ID is used to identify the asset in transactions and in the blockchain.

It allows to have fully private balances and transferred amounts just like XELIS.

As an example, XELIS is a confidential asset itself with the asset ID `0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000`.

For creating a new asset, the supply policy is set at creation and cannot be changed later. It can be either:
- **Fixed supply**: the total supply is fixed at creation and cannot be changed later.
- **Mintable**: the circulating supply can be increased by minting new tokens but can't exceed the `max_supply` set at creation.
- **None**: the supply has no limit and can be fully managed by the owner if any.

Each asset can have a metadata with `name`, `ticker` and `decimals` being the precision.
These metadata helps for wallet assets identification and display, which make them mandatory.

## Advantages

- **Privacy**: Confidential Assets allow to have fully private balances and transferred amounts.
- **Compatibility**: Confidential Assets are fully compatible with wallets, exchanges and other services.
- **Security**: Confidential Assets are implemented in base layer of the blockchain, and not as a second layer solution.
- **Decentralized**: Confidential Assets are fully decentralized and trustless, nobody can freeze or censor your assets.
- **Management**: if deployed by a Smart Contract, it can be minted (example: a stablecoin based on a mint/burn mechanism).
- **Immutable supply rules**: `max_supply` is part of the asset data, so the supply policy is set at creation and cannot be changed later.
- **Stable metadata**: `decimals`, `name`, and `ticker` are part of the asset data, preventing post-creation metadata drift.

## Limitations

Unfortunately (or fortunately ?), confidential assets outside of a Smart Contract cannot be managed by the owner.
This means that the owner cannot freeze or burn the assets you own, but also cannot take, for example, a % fee on each transfer.
