pages/network-upgrades.mdx, before:

## Summary

The table below lists network upgrades, commonly known as hard forks, in the cryptocurrency world.
These updates are mandatory for all nodes and help to keep the network secure and up-to-date.
For a comprehensive list of past and frequent core updates, please refer to the [Github releases](https://github.com/xelis-project/xelis-blockchain/releases) 
or [Git commits](https://github.com/xelis-project/xelis-blockchain/commits/dev).

| Version | Date       | Block Height | Goal                    |                                   |
|---------|------------|--------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| V1      | 2024-07-11 | 434100       | XelisHashV2 & bug fixes | [More Info](#v1) |
| V0      | 2024-04-20 | 0            | Launch                  | [More Info](#v0) |


## V1

This is the first network upgrade. It was aimed at adjusting the minning algorithm to be more egalitarian across devices
and enchance resistance against FPGAs.

The name of the new POW algorithm is [XelisHashV2](https://github.com/xelis-project/xelis-hash).

Additionally, prior to this upgrade, we could not get an accurate estimate of the current hashrate.
The first algorithm was susceptible of producing low-bits hash, resulting in higher than expected reported network hashrate.
This issue was inherently resolved by using the new algorithm.

We've also increase the extra data size limit per TX from 1 KB to 32 KB.
This allows to integrate more data in a single transaction, such as a document or a picture.
Note that the limit per transfer in a TX stays at 1 KB.

The difficulty algorithm was also adjusted to be less aggressive and smoother.
This will help to reduce the impact of hashrate fluctuations on the network and reduce orphans blocks.

Lasty, changes were made to the internal storage of the versioned balances to fix orphan transactions.
We discovered a front-running problem that could occur when building several TXs not all executed in the same block,
causing them to become orphaned because the output balance was not updated accordingly.

The upgrade was scheduled to take place at block height 434100, approximately on July 11th, 2024.

## V0

This is the first version of the blockchain.
It was launched on April 20th, 2024, at block height 0.

Commit message:

add general info about latest upgrade

pages/network-upgrades.mdx, after:

## Summary

The table below lists network upgrades, commonly known as hard forks, in the cryptocurrency world.
These updates are mandatory for all nodes and help to keep the network secure and up-to-date.
For a comprehensive list of past and frequent core updates, please refer to the [Github releases](https://github.com/xelis-project/xelis-blockchain/releases) 
or [Git commits](https://github.com/xelis-project/xelis-blockchain/commits/dev).

| Version | Date       | Block Height | Goal                              |                                   |
|---------|------------|--------------|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| V2      | 2024-12-30 | 1376000      | MultiSig, P2P DH & Security Patch | [More Info](#v2)                 |
| V1      | 2024-07-11 | 434100       | XelisHashV2 & bug fixes           | [More Info](#v1)                  |
| V0      | 2024-04-20 | 0            | Launch                            | [More Info](#v0)                  |

## V2
A short notice important network upgrade. Introduces several key improvements and a security patch.

**MutliSig**  
A highly anticipated and essential feature for the ecosystem. 
The network now supports multi-signature setups, enabling greater security and new possibilities for users and developers.

Key use cases include:

- Governance & financial security: Collateralized multisig wallets.
- 2FA auth-like feature: Setup two keys to authorize transactions to protect your funds.
- Public view wallet: Allow others to view hidden wallet funds without the ability to access or move them.

**P2P DH (Diffie-Hellman)**  
A new key exchange protocol to enable more secure peer-to-peer communication.
Both parties independently generate a shared key using private and public keys, ensuring that transmitted data is encrypted and immune to eavesdropping.

**Security Patch**  
Details of the patch are not disclosed at this time.

**Additional improvements**  
This upgrade also include various other enhancements, such as the ability to track burned supply, and more.

## V1

This is the first network upgrade. It was aimed at adjusting the minning algorithm to be more egalitarian across devices
and enchance resistance against FPGAs.

The name of the new POW algorithm is [XelisHashV2](https://github.com/xelis-project/xelis-hash).

Additionally, prior to this upgrade, we could not get an accurate estimate of the current hashrate.
The first algorithm was susceptible of producing low-bits hash, resulting in higher than expected reported network hashrate.
This issue was inherently resolved by using the new algorithm.

We've also increase the extra data size limit per TX from 1 KB to 32 KB.
This allows to integrate more data in a single transaction, such as a document or a picture.
Note that the limit per transfer in a TX stays at 1 KB.

The difficulty algorithm was also adjusted to be less aggressive and smoother.
This will help to reduce the impact of hashrate fluctuations on the network and reduce orphans blocks.

Lasty, changes were made to the internal storage of the versioned balances to fix orphan transactions.
We discovered a front-running problem that could occur when building several TXs not all executed in the same block,
causing them to become orphaned because the output balance was not updated accordingly.

The upgrade was scheduled to take place at block height 434100, approximately on July 11th, 2024.

## V0

This is the first version of the blockchain.
It was launched on April 20th, 2024, at block height 0.
